# 📚 Arcana Aegis

A Library of Rare Books

## Introduction

The Arcana Aegis is a project dedicated to organizing and preserving a digital
library of rare and unique media. The library was discovered on the internet
and downloaded, as documented in this
[tweet](https://twitter.com/tawnniee/status/1665973663546613762?s=20).

## Current State of the Collection

The library, in its current state, presents a few challenges:

* **Duplication of data**: There are multiple instances of the same items
  throughout the library.
* **Inconsistent curation**: File names across the library are inconsistent,
  and there are cases of missing metadata. Some of the media files are also in
  outdated or bespoke formats.

## Future Goals

The primary goal for the Arcana Aegis project is to structure and categorize
the library in a way that makes it accessible and easy to navigate. To achieve
this, we are developing a robust data model that can accommodate the wide
variety of media types found in the library, which include:

* Books
* Periodicals
* Images
* Video files
* Audio files (MP3s)
* Series of books

Once the data model is in place and the library contents have been loaded into
it, an API and a user-friendly frontend will be added, allowing users to
"checkout" items from the library.

## What's Inside This Repository Now?

Currently, this repository contains a rudimentary data model, which was the
initial attempt to structure the library's contents. However, given the range
and diversity of media types in the library, it became clear that a more
sophisticated approach is required. 

The field of [Library
Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_and_information_science) has
devoted significant effort to resolving these sorts of challenges. In
particular, The Library of Congress, the world's largest library with over 173
million items, has developed a wealth of practices and standards for managing
vast and diverse collections.

## Project Timeline

The Arcana Aegis project is currently in progress. Here's a breakdown of the
major tasks and their current status:

1. **Create a data model**: The new data model will be capable of referencing
   and categorizing the diverse contents of the library. *(In Progress)*
2. **Load the library into the data model**: This process will involve writing
   scripts to extract metadata from the library's contents and hash the
   contents to identify and remove duplicates. *(Upcoming)*
3. **Create a frontend to browse the library**: The frontend will provide a
   user-friendly interface for users to navigate and explore the library.
   *(Upcoming)*
4. **Deploy to the cloud**: This step will involve setting up a cloud-based
   database, blob store, and authentication system to support the library's
   online presence. *(Upcoming)*
5. **Provide access**: Once the above steps are complete, the library will be
   opened for public access. *(Upcoming)*

Stay tuned for updates on these tasks as the project progresses. We look
forward to sharing this incredible collection with the world!

## Data Modeling

The Library of Congress has a proposed model named [BIBFRAME](https://www.loc.gov/bibframe/docs/bibframe2-model.html).

BIBFRAME 2.0 organizes this information into three core levels of abstraction: Work, Instance, and Item.

* Work.  The highest level of abstraction, a Work, in the BIBFRAME context,
  reflects the conceptual essence of the cataloged resource:  authors,
  languages, and what it is about (subjects).

* Instance.  A Work may have one or more individual, material embodiments, for
  example, a particular published form. These are Instances of the Work.  An
  Instance reflects information such as its publisher, place and date of
  publication, and format.

* Item.   An item is an actual copy (physical or electronic) of an Instance. It
  reflects information such as its location (physical or virtual), shelf mark,
  and barcode.

BIBFRAME 2.0 further defines additional key concepts that have relationships to the core classes:

* Agents:  Agents are people, organizations, jurisdictions, etc., associated
  with a Work or Instance through roles such as author, editor, artist,
  photographer, composer, illustrator, etc.
* Subjects:  A Work might be “about” one or more concepts. Such a concept is
  said to be a “subject” of the Work. Concepts that may be subjects include
  topics, places, temporal expressions, events, works, instances, items,
  agents, etc.
* Events:  Occurrences, the recording of which may be the content of a Work.

## Stats on the collection:

NOTE: The following statistics were generated by a Python script
(`scripts/count_file_types.py`). Due to the library's lack of meticulous curation
and the presence of unusual file names, some of these statistics may not be
entirely accurate. They represent our best effort at comprehending the wide
variety of contents within the library.

```sh
Total files: 14777
pdf: 6103
htm: 4436
jpg: 1342
doc: 771
txt: 659
html: 502
gif: 496
bmp: 72
epub: 70
No extension: 66
rtf: 47
png: 34
mp3: 30
jpeg: 26
djvu: 18
mega: 14
docx: 13
mht: 10
mobi: 8
rar: 7
tif: 7
asc: 6
wmv: 5
cbz: 4
pma: 4
css: 3
crdownload: 2
chm: 2
zen: 2
rtx: 2
odt: 2
db: 2
mid: 2
wri: 2
pdb: 2
arj: 1
am: 1
js: 1
wpd: 1
```
